# Docker Compose Quickstart for Ghost Blogging Platform
Quick start docker composition for Ghost blog with Node, NGINX proxy with SSL and mysql database. The intention is to get a general feel of depolying Ghost in production mode, where each component (Web & DB) are deployed seperately. This supports scaling and helps to isolate failure (if any).

The compose file will pull and run ghost ,nginx and mysql containers. Additionally, it will also persist data generated by the containters using Docker's volume.

If you want to test out Ghost locally and just to explore its feature, you can consider installing ghost-cli using npm. 

## Operating ENV
- **Operating System** Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.7 

- **docker** version 1.12.2

- **docker-compose** version 1.9.0

## Technology Stack
- Node.js
    - Ghost blog software
- NGINX
    - proxying port 80 calls to the Node web server on port 2368
- MySQL database
    - using UTFMB4 encoding (MySQL's UTF8 implementation was limited. UTFMB4 includes Emoji)

## Preparation
- A server somewhere, like Amazon EC2 , Google Compute Cloud or a virutal machine connected to your own network
- Register a domain name (either public or within your own network).
- A pair of SSL certificate and key for your domain.
- Access to your domain's DNS.

## How to Use It
0. Clone this project into the server's filesystem.
0. Edit environment settings in docker-compose.yml as required
    - WEB_DOMAIN under ghost service (Your registered domain)
    - Database settings - under ghost and mysql services 
0. Add your TLS/SSL certificate and key to ./nginx/ssl 
0. Set your registered domain (server_name) in ./nginx/conf/ghost.conf (must match the common name in your TLS/SSL certificate)
0. Run docke-compose within your Linux environment 
    0. ```docker-compose build```
    0. ```docker-compose up -d```  (you can remove the -d if you want to see logs, then Ctrl+C to stop all containers)
0. Go to https://YOUR_DOMAIN/admin to set up your blog.
0. Once you've made your admin account using that wizard, go back to: https://YOUR_DOMAIN/admin
0. Log in and enjoy.
0. Stopping and remove all containers : ```docker-compose down --remove-orphans``` 

## How to back up your database
0. Run "docker-compose ps" to get a list of running containers.
0. Locate the name of the mysql container.
0. Run this command to get the container's internal IP: docker inspect --format='{{.NetworkSettings.IPAddress}}' THAT_CONTAINER-NAME
0. In your favorite database GUI tool (like Navicat or DataGrip), create a new connection via SSH tunnel to the host machine
0. Use the internal IP address and database user and password to connect to database once SSH tunnel is established to host.
0. You'll have access to the data so you can view data and run backups.

### To install another theme

Stop docker-compose with:
```docker-compose stop```

Copy the new theme to **./ghost/content/theme** so that your theme folder sits next to the casper folder in the themes directory

Now run:
```docker-compose up -d```

Log in to the Ghost admin, go to Settings > General, and at the bottom is the Theme dropdown. Select your theme and click Save.

### How does that work?

The ./ghost/content directory (on docker host machine) gets mounted inside your ghost container at /var/lib/ghost when the container runs. See the docker-compose.yml to see where this mount is happening.

## Security

- Only NGINX's ports (443) are exposed at host level.

## License 
[MIT LICENSE ](https://github.com/robincher/docker-compose-ghost-quickstart/blob/master/LICENSE)

## References:
+ [Docker Compose for Ghost by John Washam](https://github.com/jwasham/docker-ghost-template)
+ [Ghost @ Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/_/ghost/)
+ [Installing Ghost locally for Dev](https://docs.ghost.org/docs/install-local)

